time for a bit of fundamental physics
all things follow the same rate under
gravity that's because they're following
geodesics through curved space-time but
that's not important the important thing
for biology is that although everything
falls at the same rate it doesn't meet
the same fate when it hits the ground
the grape bounces an melon doesn't
bounce
now the reasons for that are quite
complex actually first of all the grape
has a larger surface area in relation to
its volume and therefore its mass than
the melon and so although in a vacuum if
you took away the air they would both
fall at the same rate actually in
reality the Great Falls a bit slower
than the melon also the melon is more
massive and so it has more kinetic
energy when it hits the ground remember
from physics class kinetic energy is 1/2
MV squared so if you reduce M you reduce
the energy the upshot of that is that
the melon has a lot more energy when it
hits the ground it has to dissipate it
in some way and it dissipates it by
exploding the influence of Earth's
gravity on your life becomes
progressively diminished the smaller you
get
for life at the small-scale a second
fundamental force of nature starts to
dominate and it's this that explains
many of those apparent to superpowers
for me the force of gravity is the thing
that defines my existence is that it is
the force that I really feel the effects
of but there are other forces at work
for example if I lick my finger and wet
it I can pick up a piece of paper I can
hold it up against the downward pull of
gravity that's because the force of
electromagnetism is important in fact is
the cohesive forces between water
molecules and the molecules that make up
my finger and the molecules that make up
the paper that are dominating this
particular situation and that's why this
piece of paper doesn't fall to the floor
now many insects can use a similar
effect
you